<?xml version='1.0' encoding='ISO-8859-1'?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [

<!--

Process this file with an XSLT processor: `xsltproc \
-''-nonet /usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh/\
manpages/docbook.xsl manpage.dbk'.  A manual page
<package>.<section> will be generated.  You may view the
manual page with: nroff -man <package>.<section> | less'.  A
typical entry in a Makefile or Makefile.am is:

DB2MAN=/usr/share/sgml/docbook/stylesheet/xsl/nwalsh/\
manpages/docbook.xsl
XP=xsltproc -''-nonet

manpage.1: manpage.dbk
        $(XP) $(DB2MAN) $<

The xsltproc binary is found in the xsltproc package.  The
XSL files are in docbook-xsl.  Please remember that if you
create the nroff version in one of the debian/rules file
targets (such as build), you will need to include xsltproc
and docbook-xsl in your Build-Depends control field.

-->

  <!-- Fill in your name for FIRSTNAME and SURNAME. -->
  <!ENTITY dhfirstname "<firstname>Leonardo</firstname>">
  <!ENTITY dhsurname   "<surname>Amaral</surname>">
  <!-- Please adjust the date whenever revising the manpage. -->
  <!ENTITY dhdate      "<date>February 23, 2007</date>">
  <!-- SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection other parameters are
       allowed: see man(7), man(1). -->
  <!ENTITY dhsection   "<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>">
  <!ENTITY dhemail     "<email>leleobhz@leleobhz.org</email>">
  <!ENTITY dhusername  "Leonardo Amaral">
  <!ENTITY dhucpackage "<refentrytitle>BBEP</refentrytitle>">
  <!ENTITY dhpackage   "beatextractor">

  <!ENTITY debian      "Ubuntu">
  <!ENTITY gnu         "<acronym>GNU</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY gpl         "&gnu; <acronym>GPL</acronym>">
]>

<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <address>
      &dhemail;
    </address>
    <author>
      &dhfirstname;
      &dhsurname;
    </author>
    <copyright>
      <year>2003</year>
      <holder>&dhusername;</holder>
    </copyright>
    &dhdate;
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    &dhucpackage;

    &dhsection;
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>&dhpackage;</refname>

    <refpurpose>praat script for TextGrid Generation</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>&dhpackage;</command>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>

    <para>This manual page documents briefly the
      <command>&dhpackage;</command> command.</para>

    <para>This manual page was written for the &debian; distribution
      because the original program does not have a manual page.</para>

    <para><command>&dhpackage;</command> was adaptated from the BeatExtractor script that was conceived in order to produced automatic Vowel-To Vowel segmentation running in Praat environnemt. The BBEP runs BeatExtractor from shell and optionally in a komander environnement that makes possible to segmentate multiples files at once, operation impossible in the Praat environnement. 
The original BeatExtractor script was written by Plinio Barbosa. 
The BBEP works in any complete bash environnemnt (including Windows + Cygwin), with praat, and for the GUI, Kommander is required too (at least kmdr-executor). </para>

  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>

    <title>SEE ALSO</title>

    <para><command>&dhpackage;</command> has a README file at /usr/share/doc/beatextractor/README.</para>

    <para>For further information, see the SetFon website
      (http://sourceforge.net/projects/setfon/).</para>

  </refsect1>

  <refsect1>
    <title>AUTHOR</title>

    <para>This manual page was written by &dhusername; &dhemail; for
      the &debian; system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
      granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
      the terms of the &gnu; General Public License, Version 2 any
      later version published by the Free Software Foundation.</para>

    <para>On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General
      Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.</para>

  </refsect1>
</refentry>

